- [Instructor] Now that we have
the database connection code set up
the database script is ready with us
and all that initial set up is done,
the next step will be to add a data access object class
for the user table.
So we're going to add a class which queries the user table,
gets the details of the user for us throughout the database.
So let's go back to the IDE and add a class here,
let's called that UserDao, which is data access object.
And the data that we're going to query from the database
should sit in some domain object.
So let us create a domain object for that.
I will go on the same package,
create another class called let's say just the User.
So this user class will have few fields,
which correspond to the columns of the user table.
So let's call those quickly.
There will be an ID, there will be a String_username.
They will be another String_name,
another one for age which is integer
and then let's take a String for gender.
Let's also generate the get set us for this,
select all fields and say, OK.
So we have a symbol domain object
which is going to hold all the content
from the database table that we will query.
So let's go back to the UserDao
and here let's first create a logger
in case we need to log anything.
So you want to use Java.user.Logger,
and you just have to provide the name of the class.
So until you UserDao.class.getName.
Log instance is ready with us.
Let's now go ahead and add a method
which will look something like this,
public it should return a User domain object
and let's call the method as getDetails.
The input for this method will be a string
which is a username.
So this is the method where you could write JDBC code
to query the user table,
to get the user details corresponding to a user name.
Let's go ahead
and create an instance of the domain object first
so that it will be ready for us to fill in with the data
that's coming from the database table.
The next thing will be let's put a try-catch block
which is dealing with the database code now.
The first step is to get a connection.
So I'm simply going to use the H2DatabaseConnection class
and just call the getConnection database method.
That is all.
So this method will get us the connection object.
And when the H2DatabaseConnection class gets loaded,
our script will run as well
which will set up the database for us.
So we are good.
The next line will be to get a prepareStatement
on the connection object
by the method prepareStatement
and let's write the query.
Simple query "select * from user,
that's the name of the table.
Let me just stick this on the next line
so that it is easy for us to view
and we'll save a username =?"
So this is a dynamic parameter
that we're going to pass during runway
and that's exactly why we are taking a prepareStatement.
Next is let's make sure that the username value
is set correctly on the prepareStatement.
So I'm going to say prepareStatement.setString
since it is a string type of a parameter
and parameter indexes generally start with one
and the value will be the one
that's coming from the method parameter.
This is the same value that we are grabbing
from the method signature on line number 10.
And now if you see you have got certain errors
because the demand that you create a catch class for them.
So I'm going to just add the catch class quickly
and instead of doing a princeStackTrace, let's log it.
So we're going to use that logger
and say log, this is SEVERE Level,
so you could not execute query.
This is a message of your choice.
I'm just trying to make it simple right now.
There it is.
So we have the prepareStatement that has a parameter
that's username that is set on it.
And then we need the ResultSet object
Which is going to hold the output
of the execute query method.
So the prepareStatement will execute the query
that we have written here on line 19,
and it'll give us the ResultSet.
We'll quickly iterate through that ResultSet
and fill in all the information on the user domain object.
So we'll just say set Id,
and that will come from the resultsSet parameter of Int
and that column is id.
Similarly, we'll do the rest of the fields as well.
ResultSet.getString because the column username in the table
is a string type.
Let's also do the same thing for the name field
that will be gotten from the column,
which is a string type again
and that column is name.
Let's do that for the Age field.
Now age is Int in the database and the column name is 'age"
and lastly, we have the gender.
You can say resultSet.getString
because gender is still a string in the database column.
So there we are.
We need coats for it.
So we have basically queried
the database table user on line 19,
we have made use of a prepared statement.
This is the conventional code that we use in JDBC
to create a statement and to execute a query.
So once that prepared statement is ready,
we set a parameter to it dynamically on line 20,
and we execute the query,
that query will return as a resultSet.
We are iterating through the resultSet,
we are fetching each value of the respective column
and setting it to the user domain object.
Once all of this is done,
let's come right at the end on line 32
and just let's return this user domain object.
That is all.
So UserDao class was primarily to query the user table,
fill in data in an object and make it ready
so that it can be used by the subsequent service class
that we will implement next.